==================
DeepSpeech Simple Server
==================


Key Features
============

This is a simple http server for translating speech to text using mozilla's deepspeech.

Installation
=============

You first need to install deepspeech. Depending on your system you can use the
CPU package:

.. code-block:: console

    pip3 install deepspeech

Or the GPU package:

.. code-block:: console

    pip3 install deepspeech-gpu

Then you can install the deepspeech server:

.. code-block:: console

    python3 setup.py install

The server is also available on pypi, so you can install it with pip:

.. code-block:: console

    pip3 install deepspeech-simple-server

Note that python 3.5 is the minimum version required to run the server.

Starting the server
====================

.. code-block:: console

    deepspeech-server --config config.json

You can use deepspeech without training a model yourself. Pre-trained
models are provided by Mozilla in the release page of the project (See the
assets section of the release not):

https://github.com/mozilla/DeepSpeech/releases

Once your downloaded a pre-trained model, you can untar it and directly use the
sample configuration file:

.. code-block:: console

    cp config.sample.json config.json
    deepspeech-server --config config.json

Server configuration
=====================

The configuration is done with a json file, provided with the "--config" argument.
Its structure is the following one:

.. code-block:: json

    {
      "deepspeech": {
        "model" :"models/output_graph.pb",
        "alphabet": "models/alphabet.txt",
        "lm": "models/lm.binary",
        "trie": "models/trie",
        "beam_width": 500, 
        
      },
      "server": {
        "http": {
          "host": "0.0.0.0",
          "port": 8080,
          "request_max_size": 1048576
        }
      },
    }

The configuration file contains several sections and sub-sections.

deepspeech section configuration
--------------------------------

Section "deepspeech" contains configuration of the deepspeech engine:

**model** is the protobuf model that was generated by deepspeech

**alphabet** is the alphabet dictionary (as available in the "data" directory of
the DeepSpeech sources).

**lm** is the language model.

**trie** is the trie file.

**beam width**  

http section configuration
--------------------------

**request_max_size** (default value: 1048576, i.e. 1MiB) is the maximum payload
size allowed by the server. A received payload size above this threshold will
return a "413: Request Entity Too Large" error.

**host**  (default value: "0.0.0.0") is the listen address of the http server.

**port** (default value: 8080) is the listening port of the http server.



Using the server
================

Inference on the model is done via http post requests. For example with the
following curl command:

.. code-block:: console

     curl -X POST --data-binary @testfile.wav http://localhost:8080/
